Create product-docs-summer-rn.md (#4059)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-versions/release-notes/04-Sept-2023/product-docs-summer-rn.md

---

> title: "Summer 2023 product docs updates"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "Summer 2023 product documentation updates"
```

> title: "Summer 2023 product documentation updates"

Reviewer: sug shortening
```suggestion
title: "Summer 2023 product docs updates"
```

id: "product-docs-summer"

> description: "Summer 2023: The Product docs team merged 256 PRs, made various updates to dbt Cloud and Core, such as adding What's New, writing Semantic Layer beta docs, releasing dbt 1.6 docs and more!"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Summer 2023: The Product docs team merged 256 PRs, made various updates to dbt Cloud and Core, such as adding What's New, writing Semantic Layer beta docs, releasing dbt 1.6 docs, and more!"
```

sidebar_label: "Update: Product docs changes"
tags: [July-2023, Aug-2023, product-docs]
date: 2023-09-07
sidebar_position: 09
---

> Hello from the dbt Docs team: @mirnawong1, @matthewshaver, @nghi-ly, and @runleonarun! First, we’d like to thank the 22 new community contributors to docs.getdbt.com :pray: What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31.

Author: ```suggestion
Hello from dbt's Product Documentation team: @mirnawong1, @matthewshaver, @nghi-ly, and @runleonarun! We’d like to start by thanking the 22 new community contributors to docs.getdbt.com :pray: We'd also like to recognize all of the docs and support we get from the Developer Experience team (@jasnonaz @gwenwindflower @dbeatty10 @dataders @joellabes @Jstein77 @dave-connors-3 )! 

What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31.
```

> Hello from dbt's Product Documentation team: @mirnawong1, @matthewshaver, @nghi-ly, and @runleonarun! We'd like to recognize all of the docs and support from our partner team, Developer Experience: @jasnonaz @gwenwindflower @dbeatty10 @dataders @joellabes @Jstein77 @dave-connors-3! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hello from dbt's Product Documentation team (the stewards of the docs.getdbt.com site): @mirnawong1, @matthewshaver, @nghi-ly, and @runleonarun! 

We'd like to recognize all of the docs and support from our partner team, Developer Experience: @jasnonaz @gwenwindflower @dbeatty10 @dataders @joellabes @Jstein77 @dave-connors-3! 
```

> Hello from dbt's Product Documentation team: @mirnawong1, @matthewshaver, @nghi-ly, and @runleonarun! We’d like to start by thanking the 22 new community contributors to docs.getdbt.com :pray: We'd also like to recognize all of the docs and support we get from the Developer Experience team: @jasnonaz @gwenwindflower @dbeatty10 @dataders @joellabes @Jstein77 @dave-connors-3! 

Author: ```suggestion
Hello from dbt's Product Documentation team: @mirnawong1, @matthewshaver, @nghi-ly, and @runleonarun! We'd like to recognize all of the docs and support from our partner team, Developer Experience: @jasnonaz @gwenwindflower @dbeatty10 @dataders @joellabes @Jstein77 @dave-connors-3! 
```

> What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31. Here's what's new to [docs.getdbt.com](http://docs.getdbt.com/):

Author: ```suggestion
What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31. We’d like to start by thanking the 22 new community contributors to docs.getdbt.com :pray: Here's what's new to [docs.getdbt.com](http://docs.getdbt.com/):
```

> What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31. We’d like to thank the 22 new community contributors to docs.getdbt.com :pray: Here's what's new to [docs.getdbt.com](http://docs.getdbt.com/):

Author: ```suggestion
What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31. We’d like to thank the 22 community members who contributed for the 1st time to docs.getdbt.com :pray: Here's what's new to [docs.getdbt.com](http://docs.getdbt.com/):
```

> What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31. We’d like to start by thanking the 22 new community contributors to docs.getdbt.com :pray: Here's what's new to [docs.getdbt.com](http://docs.getdbt.com/):

Author: ```suggestion
What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31. We’d like to thank the 22 new community contributors to docs.getdbt.com :pray: Here's what's new to [docs.getdbt.com](http://docs.getdbt.com/):
```

> What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31. We’d like to thank the 22 community members who contributed for the 1st time to docs.getdbt.com :pray: Here's what's new to [docs.getdbt.com](http://docs.getdbt.com/):

Reviewer: docs.getdbt.com sounded a bit repetitive so tried assigning it a name ' product docs' but I'm not 100% if we want to call it that 🙏  feel free to ignore if we don't want to call it that

```suggestion
What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31. We’d like to thank the 22 community members who contributed to the [dbt Product docs](https://docs.getdbt.com) for the 1st time :pray: Here's what's new:
```

> * Changes based on YOUR feedback (you can reach us most directly by opening a pull request or issue in [our repo](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com) or reaching out in the dbt community Slack channel #dbt-product-docs): 

Reviewer: adding link to slack channel. also suggesting to add the 'feedback callout' at the end of this

```suggestion
* Based on YOUR feedback, we've made the following changes: 
```

> 	- [Permissions table](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions) for Enterprise accounts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	- [Permissions table](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions) for Enterprise accounts
```

> 	- [Browser session page](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/cloud/about-cloud/browsers#browser-sessions) that clarifies dbt Cloud’s browser session time and when it logs users off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	- [Browser session page](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/browsers#browser-sessions) that clarifies dbt Cloud’s browser session time and when it logs users off.<br />
	
	You can reach us most directly by opening a pull request or issue in [our repo](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com) or reaching out in the dbt community Slack channel [#dbt-product-docs](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C0441GSRU04)).
	
```

* The docs site now collapses sections you’re not currently looking at. There were quite a few people who wanted this, and it bugged us too, so we were happy to get this shipped!
* Introduced the idea of [“Trusted” adapters](/docs/supported-data-platforms#types-of-adapters).

## ☁ Cloud projects

> * What’s new? is back in the dbt Cloud UI! The Docs team will begin updating the content with new features.

Reviewer: adding add'l context of what is what's new

```suggestion
* The **What’s new?** product update widget is back in the dbt Cloud UI! The Docs team will begin updating the content to keep you informed about new features.
```

> * Launched the re-released [Semantic Layer beta docs](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl), which introduce users to the new API, new guide to set up MetricFlow and the new Semantic Layer, as well as revamp the ‘Use the dbt Semantic Layer’ section for users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Launched the re-released [Semantic Layer beta docs](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl), which introduces users to the new API, new guide to set up MetricFlow and the new Semantic Layer, as well as revamp the ‘Use the dbt Semantic Layer’ section for users.
```

* Updated [Admin API v2 and v3](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/admin-cloud-api) to help you understand the differences between them and which version includes the endpoints you use.
* To improve discoverability, the docs team made changes to the [deploy dbt sidebar](/docs/deploy/deployments). We added cards and aligned better with the dbt Cloud UI and the way it’s used.
* Deprecated legacy job schemas in the [Discovery API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/discovery-api).

> * Added a page to describe [experimental and beta features](/docs/dbt-versions/experimental-features) in dbt Cloud and what you need to know abotu them.

Reviewer: typo 
```suggestion
* Added a page to describe [experimental and beta features](/docs/dbt-versions/experimental-features) in dbt Cloud and what you need to know about them.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added a section to introduce a new beta feature [**Extended Attributes**](/docs/dbt-cloud-environments#extended-attributes-beta), which allows users to set a flexible `profiles.yml` snippet in their dbt Cloud Environment settings.
```

## 🎯 Core projects

* We released [dbt 1.6](/guides/migration/versions/upgrading-to-v1.6)! We added docs for the new commands `dbt retry` and `dbt clone`

## New 📚 Guides, ✏️ blog posts, and FAQs
* Check out how these community members use the dbt community in the [Community spotlight](/community/spotlight). 
* Blog posts published this summer include [Optimizing Materialized Views with dbt](/blog/announcing-materialized-views),  [Data Vault 2.0 with dbt Cloud](/blog/data-vault-with-dbt-cloud), and [Create dbt Documentation and Tests 10x faster with ChatGPT](/blog/create-dbt-documentation-10x-faster-with-chatgpt) 

> * We now have two new best practice guides: [How we build our metrics](/guides/best-practices/how-we-build-our-metrics/semantic-layer-1-intro) and [Customizing CI/CD with Custom Pipelines](/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/1-cicd-background).

Reviewer 2: the CI/CD one is actually here https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/orchestration/set-up-ci/overview and is a revamp of best practices from across devhub as opposed to brand-new. (The guide you linked to used to contain some of the content that is now in the set up CI block, so it probably did appear in your diff view.)

Author: Yep, the diff is where I got it from. Thanks so much for keeping me honest, Joel!

> * We now have two new best practice guides: [How we build our metrics](/guides/best-practices/how-we-build-our-metrics/semantic-layer-1-intro) and [Customizing CI/CD with Custom Pipelines](/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/1-cicd-background).

Author: ```suggestion
* We now have two new best practice guides: [How we build our metrics](/guides/best-practices/how-we-build-our-metrics/semantic-layer-1-intro) and [Customizing CI/CD with Custom Pipelines](/guides/orchestration/set-up-ci/overview).
```

> * We now have two new best practice guides: [How we build our metrics](/guides/best-practices/how-we-build-our-metrics/semantic-layer-1-intro) and [Customizing CI/CD with Custom Pipelines](/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/1-cicd-background).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* We now have two new best practice guides: [How we build our metrics](/guides/best-practices/how-we-build-our-metrics/semantic-layer-1-intro) and [Set up Continuous Integration](/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/1-cicd-background).
```
<img width="1680" alt="image" src="https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/assets/7335046/51d7d547-19fc-4386-ad2b-46a088e0e029">

---
title: "Summer 2023 product documentation updates"
id: "product-docs-summer"
description: "Summer 2023: The Product docs team merged 256 PRs, made various updates to dbt Cloud and Core, such as adding What's New, writing Semantic Layer beta docs, releasing dbt 1.6 docs and more!"
sidebar_label: "Update: Product docs changes"
tags: [July-2023, Aug-2023, product-docs]
date: 2023-09-07
sidebar_position: 09
---

> Hello from dbt's Product Documentation team: @mirnawong1, @matthewshaver, @nghi-ly, and @runleonarun! We’d like to start by thanking the 22 new community contributors to docs.getdbt.com :pray: We'd also like to recognize all of the docs and support we get from the Developer Experience team (@jasnonaz @gwenwindflower @dbeatty10 @dataders @joellabes @Jstein77 @dave-connors-3 )! 

Author: ```suggestion
Hello from dbt's Product Documentation team: @mirnawong1, @matthewshaver, @nghi-ly, and @runleonarun! We’d like to start by thanking the 22 new community contributors to docs.getdbt.com :pray: We'd also like to recognize all of the docs and support we get from the Developer Experience team: @jasnonaz @gwenwindflower @dbeatty10 @dataders @joellabes @Jstein77 @dave-connors-3! 
```

> What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31.

Author: ```suggestion
What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31. Here's what's new to [docs.getdbt.com](http://docs.getdbt.com/):
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Here's what's new to [docs.getdbt.com](http://docs.getdbt.com/) this summer:

Author: ```suggestion
```

> * Changes based on YOUR feedback: 

Author: ```suggestion
* Changes based on YOUR feedback (you can reach us most directly by opening a pull request or issue in [our repo](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com) or reaching out in the dbt community Slack channel #dbt-product-docs): 
```

---
title: "Summer 2023 product docs updates"
id: "product-docs-summer"
description: "Summer 2023: The Product docs team merged 256 PRs, made various updates to dbt Cloud and Core, such as adding What's New, writing Semantic Layer beta docs, releasing dbt 1.6 docs, and more!"
sidebar_label: "Update: Product docs changes"
tags: [July-2023, Aug-2023, product-docs]

> date: 2023-09-07

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2023-09-12
```

sidebar_position: 09
---

> Hello from dbt's Product Documentation team (the stewards of the docs.getdbt.com site): @mirnawong1, @matthewshaver, @nghi-ly, and @runleonarun! 

Author: ```suggestion
Hello from dbt's Product Documentation team (the stewards of the docs.getdbt.com site): @mirnawong1, @matthewshaver, @nghi-ly, and @runleonarun. What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31. 
```

We'd like to recognize all of the docs and support from our partner team, Developer Experience: @jasnonaz @gwenwindflower @dbeatty10 @dataders @joellabes @Jstein77 @dave-connors-3! 

> What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31. We’d like to thank the 22 community members who contributed to the [dbt Product docs](https://docs.getdbt.com) for the 1st time :pray: 

Author: ```suggestion
We’d like to thank the 22 community members who contributed to the [dbt Product docs](https://docs.getdbt.com) for the 1st time :pray: 
```

> We’d like to thank the 22 community members who contributed to the [dbt Product docs](https://docs.getdbt.com) for the 1st time :pray: 

Author: ```suggestion
We'd also like to give a special thanks to the 22 community members who contributed to the [dbt Product docs](https://docs.getdbt.com) for the 1st time :pray: 
```

> What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31. We’d like to thank the 22 community members who contributed to the [dbt Product docs](https://docs.getdbt.com) for the 1st time :pray: Here's what's new:

Author: ```suggestion
What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31. We’d like to thank the 22 community members who contributed to the [dbt Product docs](https://docs.getdbt.com) for the 1st time :pray: 
```

> We'd also like to give a special thanks to the 22 community members who contributed to the [dbt Product docs](https://docs.getdbt.com) for the 1st time :pray: 

Author: ```suggestion
We'd also like to give a special thanks to the 22 community members who contributed to the [dbt Product docs](https://docs.getdbt.com) for the first time :pray: 
```

> * Based on YOUR feedback, we've made the following changes: 

Author: ```suggestion
* Based on YOUR feedback, we made the following changes: 
```

> 	- [Permissions table](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions) for Enterprise accounts

Author: ```suggestion
	- Added a [permissions table](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions) for Enterprise accounts
```

> 	- [Browser session page](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/browsers#browser-sessions) that clarifies dbt Cloud’s browser session time and when it logs users off.<br />

Author: ```suggestion
	- Added a [browser session page](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/browsers#browser-sessions) that clarifies dbt Cloud’s browser session time and when it logs users off.<br />
```

> 	You can reach us most directly by opening a pull request or issue in [our repo](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com) or reaching out in the dbt community Slack channel [#dbt-product-docs](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C0441GSRU04)).

Author: ```suggestion
      You can provide feedback by opening a pull request or issue in [our repo](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com) or reaching out in the dbt community Slack channel [#dbt-product-docs](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C0441GSRU04)).
```

> 	

Author: ```suggestion

We also made the following changes this summer:
```

> * The docs site now collapses sections you’re not currently looking at. There were quite a few people who wanted this, and it bugged us too, so we were happy to get this shipped!

Author: ```suggestion
* Added the ability to collapse sections you’re not currently looking at. There were quite a few people who wanted this, and it bugged us too, so we were happy to get this shipped!
```

* Deprecated legacy job schemas in the [Discovery API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/discovery-api).
* Added a page to describe [experimental and beta features](/docs/dbt-versions/experimental-features) in dbt Cloud and what you need to know about them.
* Added a section to introduce a new beta feature [**Extended Attributes**](/docs/dbt-cloud-environments#extended-attributes-beta), which allows users to set a flexible `profiles.yml` snippet in their dbt Cloud Environment settings.
## 🎯 Core projects

* We released [dbt 1.6](/guides/migration/versions/upgrading-to-v1.6)! We added docs for the new commands `dbt retry` and `dbt clone`

## New 📚 Guides, ✏️ blog posts, and FAQs
* Check out how these community members use the dbt community in the [Community spotlight](/community/spotlight). 
* Blog posts published this summer include [Optimizing Materialized Views with dbt](/blog/announcing-materialized-views),  [Data Vault 2.0 with dbt Cloud](/blog/data-vault-with-dbt-cloud), and [Create dbt Documentation and Tests 10x faster with ChatGPT](/blog/create-dbt-documentation-10x-faster-with-chatgpt) 

> * We now have two new best practice guides: [How we build our metrics](/guides/best-practices/how-we-build-our-metrics/semantic-layer-1-intro) and [Customizing CI/CD with Custom Pipelines](/guides/orchestration/set-up-ci/overview).

Author: ```suggestion
* We now have two new best practice guides: [How we build our metrics](/guides/best-practices/how-we-build-our-metrics/semantic-layer-1-intro) and [Set up Continuous Integration](/guides/orchestration/set-up-ci/overview).
```

---
title: "Summer 2023 product docs updates"
id: "product-docs-summer"
description: "Summer 2023: The Product docs team merged 256 PRs, made various updates to dbt Cloud and Core, such as adding What's New, writing Semantic Layer beta docs, releasing dbt 1.6 docs, and more!"
sidebar_label: "Update: Product docs changes"
tags: [July-2023, Aug-2023, product-docs]

> date: 2023-09-12

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2023-09-13
```

sidebar_position: 09
---

Hello from dbt's Product Documentation team (the stewards of the docs.getdbt.com site): @mirnawong1, @matthewshaver, @nghi-ly, and @runleonarun. What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31. 

We'd like to recognize all of the docs and support from our partner team, Developer Experience: @jasnonaz @gwenwindflower @dbeatty10 @dataders @joellabes @Jstein77 @dave-connors-3! 

> We'd also like to give a special thanks to the 22 community members who contributed to the [dbt Product docs](https://docs.getdbt.com) for the first time :pray: 

Author: ```suggestion
We'd also like to give a special thanks to the 22 community members who contributed to the [dbt Product docs](https://docs.getdbt.com) for the first time. :pray: Based on feedback from the dbt community, we made these changes:  
```

> * Based on YOUR feedback, we made the following changes: 

Author: ```suggestion
Based on YOUR feedback, we made the following changes: 
```

	- Added a [permissions table](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions) for Enterprise accounts
	- Added a [browser session page](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/browsers#browser-sessions) that clarifies dbt Cloud’s browser session time and when it logs users off.<br />
	
      You can provide feedback by opening a pull request or issue in [our repo](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com) or reaching out in the dbt community Slack channel [#dbt-product-docs](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C0441GSRU04)).

> ## General docs projects

Author: ```suggestion
## :mushroom: General docs projects

```

> We also made the following changes this summer:

Author: ```suggestion
```

> * Added the ability to collapse sections you’re not currently looking at. There were quite a few people who wanted this, and it bugged us too, so we were happy to get this shipped!

Author: ```suggestion
## General docs projects
* Added the ability to collapse sections you’re not currently looking at. There were quite a few people who wanted this, and it bugged us too, so we were happy to get this shipped!
```

---
title: "Summer 2023 product docs updates"
id: "product-docs-summer"
description: "Summer 2023: The Product docs team merged 256 PRs, made various updates to dbt Cloud and Core, such as adding What's New, writing Semantic Layer beta docs, releasing dbt 1.6 docs, and more!"
sidebar_label: "Update: Product docs changes"
tags: [July-2023, Aug-2023, product-docs]
date: 2023-09-12
sidebar_position: 09
---

Hello from dbt's Product Documentation team (the stewards of the docs.getdbt.com site): @mirnawong1, @matthewshaver, @nghi-ly, and @runleonarun. What a busy summer! We merged 256 PRs between July 1st and August 31. 

We'd like to recognize all of the docs and support from our partner team, Developer Experience: @jasnonaz @gwenwindflower @dbeatty10 @dataders @joellabes @Jstein77 @dave-connors-3! 

We'd also like to give a special thanks to the 22 community members who contributed to the [dbt Product docs](https://docs.getdbt.com) for the first time :pray: 

> Based on YOUR feedback, we made these changes: 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Based on YOUR feedback, we made the following changes: 

Author: ```suggestion
Based on YOUR feedback, we made these changes: 
```

> 	- Added a [permissions table](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions) for Enterprise accounts

Author: ```suggestion
- Added a [permissions table](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions) for Enterprise accounts
```

> - Added a [browser session page](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/browsers#browser-sessions) that clarifies dbt Cloud’s browser session time and when it logs users off.<br />

Author: ```suggestion
- Added a [browser session page](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/browsers#browser-sessions) that clarifies dbt Cloud’s browser session time and when it logs users off.
```

> 	- Added a [browser session page](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/browsers#browser-sessions) that clarifies dbt Cloud’s browser session time and when it logs users off.<br />

Author: ```suggestion
- Added a [browser session page](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/browsers#browser-sessions) that clarifies dbt Cloud’s browser session time and when it logs users off.<br />
```

>       You can provide feedback by opening a pull request or issue in [our repo](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com) or reaching out in the dbt community Slack channel [#dbt-product-docs](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C0441GSRU04)).

Author: ```suggestion
You can provide feedback by opening a pull request or issue in [our repo](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com) or reaching out in the dbt community Slack channel [#dbt-product-docs](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C0441GSRU04)).
```

> ## :mushroom: General docs projects

Author: ```suggestion
## :collision: General docs projects
```

> ## :collision: General docs projects

Author: ```suggestion
## :zap: General docs projects
```
